- After about a year on the job,
you'll have gained quite a bit of experience,
completed a few projects,
and will be starting to think about how to advance
as a software developer.
The title or level of the next position you might advance to
will vary depending upon the company you work at
and how they define the career ladder.
You'll want to do some research
or have a conversation with your supervisor
to better understand the next role
in your career progression and its responsibilities.
It might be something like Software Developer Two
or Senior Software Engineer.
At that next level, you can typically expect three things.
First, you'll have more responsibility.
You'll be expected to provide new members of your team
with the same type of support that was provided to you
when you first started out,
things like mentoring and help with solving problems.
At the same time,
you'll be expected to solve more complicated problems
in your new role.
Your team will now depend upon you
to provide well-engineered solutions
to some of the more difficult situations they face.
Part of advancing means that you'll work more independently
on your assigned tasks
because now you'll be expected
to provide more support for other team members
and consume less of it.
You can still ask for an assist from a teammate,
but you'll be expected to solve unfamiliar problems
without as much oversight.
The best software developers
can evaluate a problem or a goal
that might be a little bit unclear
and produce a solution that solves the problem
or achieves the goal.
The ability to produce results
when there's little direction to start with
is a talent that will quickly get you noticed
and build your reputation as a software developer.
So that's what to expect at the senior developer level.
Throughout the rest of this chapter,
we'll discuss what you can do
to make this transition happen,
because it begins
well before you're officially in the position.